Project management update (#2100)
w3c/wot-thing-description: proposals/project-management/README.md

# WoT Project Management Process

> [!NOTE]
> Proposal Status: Accepted

The main question to answer is "How do we organize the work?".
We want to have one place to look for the list of "work" to do in a short period.

> To do that, a prioritization should happen and should be aligned with user stories, use cases and requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do that, a prioritization should happen and should be aligned with user stories, use cases, and requirements.
```

This allows us to limit the load of a person per 1-2 week time frame and thus prioritize certain issues/topics.

## Current Process

- We have a table in a GitHub project managed by the TD TF. See <https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/80>
- Once the TF is comfortable with the approach, no other information is needed. Until then, the lifecycle diagram below represents how the work goes through over time.

![lifecycle](./lifecycle.drawio.png)

- **Step 0:** An issue shows up. It can be using the user story template or the blank template.

> - **Step 1:** Depending if the issue is a user story or not, a different path is taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Step 1:** Depending on whether the issue is a user story or not, a different path is taken.
```

>   1. **Right Path:** If the issue is a user story, it needs to be checked if it is a complex one that requires thorough analysis or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. **Right Path:** If the issue is a user story, it needs to be checked whether or not it is a complex one that requires thorough analysis.
```

  2. **Middle Path:** If the issue is about TF tasks or simple fixes, it will be handled by the TF participants based on the category.

> - **Step 2:** If the user story is complex to realize, it needs a thorough analysis. There can be other related issues, user stories or previous discussions, which make it difficult to specify the feature with a single Pull Request. These are typically significant features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Step 2:** If the user story is complex to realize, it needs a thorough analysis. Other related issues, user stories, or previous discussions can make it difficult to specify the feature with a single Pull Request. These are typically significant features.
```

- **Step 3:** An analysis document is created following [the template](../../planning/work-items/analysis/analysis-mytopic.template.md).
- **Step 4:** The issue is assigned to one or more persons based on who is most suited, has more motivation etc. but not based on their availability.
- **Step 5:** Based on people's availabilities and priorities set by the TF and WG as a whole, the issue is moved to "in progress". This indicates that this issue is being addressed by one or more persons and is part of the agenda until resolved.
  - Note: We need further discussion on how we prioritize items.

> - **Step 6:** The result of the work happens in a Pull Request (or multiple) to the Editor's Draft. In that stage, the issue is moved to "In Review". The Pull Request can be merged asynchronously based on the agreement in the [WG Policy](https://github.com/w3c/wot/blob/main/policies/async-decision.md). Once it is merged, it is part of the Editor's Draft and the issue is closed and removed from the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Step 6:** The result of the work happens in one or more Pull Requests to the Editor's Draft. In that stage, the issue is moved to "In Review". The Pull Request(s) can be merged asynchronously based on agreement in the [WG Policy](https://github.com/w3c/wot/blob/main/policies/async-decision.md). Once it is merged, it is part of the Editor's Draft, and the issue is closed and removed from the board.
```
